README.md, before:

# Chilli Growers.

**Milestone Project 1: User-Centric Frontend Development - Code Institute**

A website designed to provide information to users on how to grow chilli plants. Will also include a section on recommended chilli types with links to the related wikipedia pages.
The userbase will mostly be beginner growers looking to start their own plant.

## UX
 
To make a responsive website for beginner chilli growers, that provides a guide and suggestions for what to grow. The general layout would be a single scrolling page with a navigation section to move to different points throughout the site.

### User Stories

- As a user, I want to be able to move around the site easily on mobile and desktop.
- As a user, I want to have easy access to be able to access and navigate a guide.
- As a user, I want to be able to sign up for future updates.
- As a user, I want to see a variety of chillies I can choose.

### Strategy

To design a website that is easy to navigate and not overload the user with information by using tabs to compress the guide.

### Scope

To provide the user with a basic guide and gallery section on how to get started growing chillies.

### Structure

The site in structured in a way to give the user the relevant information in a way that it doesn't fill too much of the screen. At the bottom is a section to show the user recommendations on what to grow.
A collapsible navigation is available for mobile users to get around the site.

### Skeleton

Balsamiq was used the create the following wireframe:

[Balsamiq Wireframe](https://github.com/bob134552/Chilli-Growers/tree/master/wireframe/Chilli-Growing-Website.pdf)

### Surface



## Features

The website has 4 main sections:

- A home section containing a navbar to help navigate the site and a callout with button to allow the user to sign up for updates.
- A reasons sections detailing why the user should grow their own chillies.
- A guide section that uses vertical pills and tab panes to present information in a easy way that saves space.
- A gallery section that contains 6 (4 on mobile) different varieties of chillies that the user can get information on.
 
### Existing Features

- Feature 1 - Collapsible Navigation Bar, this allows the user to navigate the site with ease.
- Feature 2 - Guide using tab pane, This allows the user to have access to a growing guide that doesn't require scrolling to see relevant information.
- Feature 3 - Modal with button, This allows the user to submit their email and name to let the user sign up for future updates and news.


### Features Left to Implement
- Add a feature that remembers which tab they were on before leaving the page so they can continue from where they left off on the guide.

## Technologies Used

- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/)
    - For basic wireframe mockup.
- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML)
    - To create the site.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
    - To create custom styles.
- [JQuery](https://jquery.com)
    - To simplify DOM manipulation.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
    - For better responsiveness.


## Testing

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

Whenever it is feasible, prefer to automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant. A particularly useful form for describing your testing process is via scenarios, such as:

1. Contact form:
    1. Go to the "Contact Us" page
    2. Try to submit the empty form and verify that an error message about the required fields appears
    3. Try to submit the form with an invalid email address and verify that a relevant error message appears
    4. Try to submit the form with all inputs valid and verify that a success message appears.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

## Deployment

This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub Pages or Heroku).

In particular, you should provide all details of the differences between the deployed version and the development version, if any, including:
- Different values for environment variables (Heroku Config Vars)?
- Different configuration files?
- Separate git branch?

In addition, if it is not obvious, you should also describe how to run your code locally.


## Credits

### Content

All content was written by me.

Chilli descriptions adapted from [Pepper Scale](https://www.pepperscale.com/)

Images within the guide were taken by me.

### Media
- Some photos were obtained from google images.

### Acknowledgements

- I received inspiration for this project from X

Commit message:

README.md alterations, beautifying index.html code and style.css code. altering section padding and background colors.

README.md, after:

# Chilli Growers.

**Milestone Project 1: User-Centric Frontend Development - Code Institute**

A website designed to provide information to users on how to grow chilli plants. Will also include a section on recommended chilli types with links to the related wikipedia pages.
The userbase will mostly be beginner growers looking to start their own plant.

## UX
 
To make a responsive website for beginner chilli growers, that provides a guide and suggestions for what to grow. The general layout would be a single scrolling page with a navigation section to move to different points throughout the site.

Balsamiq was used the create the following wireframe: [Balsamiq Wireframe](https://github.com/bob134552/Chilli-Growers/tree/master/wireframe/Chilli-Growing-Website.pdf)

### The Strategy Plane


### The Scope Plane


### The Structure Plane


### The Skeleton Plane


### The Surface Plane



### User Stories

- As a user, I want to be able to move around the site easily on mobile and desktop.
- As a user, I want to have easy access to be able to access and navigate a guide.
- As a user, I want to be able to sign up for future updates.
- As a user, I want to see a variety of chillies I can choose.

## Features

The website has 4 main sections:

- A home section containing a navbar to help navigate the site and a callout with button to allow the user to sign up for updates.
- A reasons sections detailing why the user should grow their own chillies.
- A guide section that uses vertical pills and tab panes to present information in a easy way that saves space.
- A gallery section that contains 6 (4 on mobile) different varieties of chillies that the user can get information on.
 
### Existing Features

- Feature 1 - Collapsible Navigation Bar, this allows the user to navigate the site with ease.
- Feature 2 - Guide using tab pane, This allows the user to have access to a growing guide that doesn't require scrolling to see relevant information.
- Feature 3 - Modal with button, This allows the user to submit their email and name to let the user sign up for future updates and news.


### Features Left to Implement
- Add a feature that remembers which tab they were on before leaving the page so they can continue from where they left off on the guide.

## Technologies Used

- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/)
    - For a basic wireframe mockup.
- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML)
    - To create the site.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
    - To create custom styles.
- [JQuery](https://jquery.com)
    - To simplify DOM manipulation.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
    - For better responsiveness.


## Testing

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

Whenever it is feasible, prefer to automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant. A particularly useful form for describing your testing process is via scenarios, such as:

1. Contact form:
    1. Go to the "Contact Us" page
    2. Try to submit the empty form and verify that an error message about the required fields appears
    3. Try to submit the form with an invalid email address and verify that a relevant error message appears
    4. Try to submit the form with all inputs valid and verify that a success message appears.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

## Deployment

This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub Pages or Heroku).

In particular, you should provide all details of the differences between the deployed version and the development version, if any, including:
- Different values for environment variables (Heroku Config Vars)?
- Different configuration files?
- Separate git branch?

In addition, if it is not obvious, you should also describe how to run your code locally.


## Credits

### Content

All content was written by me.

Chilli descriptions adapted from [Pepper Scale](https://www.pepperscale.com/)

Images within the guide were taken by me.

### Media
- Some photos were obtained from google images filtering by free license.

### Acknowledgements

- I received inspiration for this project from X
